# How to write shaders?
There is no custom shader language for GFX right now, so you have to use languages like SPIR-V, GLSL etc. I had some issues integrating run-time GLSL->SPIR-V libraries in Turan Engine, so I only used SPIR-V in this project (Used GLSLang in Content folder to convert GLSL->SPIR-V). If you are using GLSL and Vulkan, you can follow below.
Shader Input = Vulkan Descriptor. Descriptor Set 0 is for global buffers and there is at least one global buffer in all applications (if you don't create any global buffer, vulkan backend will automatically create one). When you create a global buffer, you specify its binding index and if you are gonna use it in your shader, you should specify the same value there too! For now, only global descriptors are uniform/storage buffers. That means global texture descriptors are not supported for now! 
Shader Inputs are in 3 types: Global (Buffers only as described above), General (Different between material types but same between material instances that are instantinated from the same material type) and Per Instance (Has different values between material instances that are instantinated from the same material type). You can have an array of buffers/textures in a descriptor in Vulkan and this is supported by specifying the number of elements in ShaderInput_Description while linking your material type.
If your shader has general shader input, they should use Descriptor Set 1. Then per instance shader inputs should use Descriptor Set 2. If your shader doesn't have any general shader input, then per instance shader inputs should use Descriptor Set 1. While describing shader inputs in ShaderInput_Description, BINDINGPOINT shouldn't exceed the number of shader inputs of the type. That means, you shouldn't use BINDINGPOINT 1 if you have only one shader input of the type (you should use BINDINGPOINT 0).